---
layout: default
title: CoreDet License
---
Except where noted (e.g. coredet/benchmarks/parsec,
coredet/benchmarks/racey, coredet/compiler/runtime/libhoard),
[CoreDet](Deterministic_MultiProcessing_(DMP)#CoreDet_Source_Code "wikilink")
is (C) 2010 University of Washington and subject to the following
license agreement:

License
=======

Academic License Agreement (without modification rights) for CoreDet
Software (to join the collaboration group with modification rights,
please contact dmp@.cs.washington.edu)

Grant: The University of Washington (UW) grants permission for you
("Institution") to use the CoreDet software ("Software") for the
purposes and in the manner allowed by this license. CoreDet is software
that is designed to enable deterministic execution of multithreaded
C/C++ applications.

UW and the Developers allow individuals to use and copy Software, for
informational, personal and research purposes on the following
conditions:

​1. Software may not be modified.

​2. Software and derivatives may not be published, distributed, or
otherwise transferred or made available to others, except within the
educational institution of the person downloading the Software if the
original downloader is a student, employee or faculty of that
institution.

​3. Software and derivatives are specifically \*not\* available for
commercial or free general distribution. Neither You nor any other
recipient of the Software may combine in a way that causes its use,
modification or distribution to be subject to any license other than
this license.

​4. If you are interested in an exception to these license terms, please
contact:

dmp@cs.washington.edu; or

UW TechTransfer University of Washington (206) 616-3451
license@u.washington.edu

​5. You must retain within Software the copyright, trademark, or other
notices pertaining to Software as provided by UW.

​6. You agree to provide the Developers with feedback on the use of the
Software software in your personal, academic or other research, and that
the Developers and UW are permitted to use any information you provide
in making changes to the Software. All bug reports and technical
questions shall be sent to:

dmp@cs.washington.edu.

Grantback: You acknowledge that the Developers, UW and its licensees may
develop modifications to Software that may be substantially similar to
your modifications of Software, and that the Developers, UW and its
licensees shall not be constrained in any way by you in UW's or its
licensees' use or management of such modifications. You acknowledge the
right of the Developers and UW to prepare and publish modifications to
Software that may be substantially similar or functionally equivalent to
your modifications and improvements, and if you obtain patent protection
for any modification or improvement to Software you agree not to allege
or enjoin infringement of your patent by the Developers, the UW or by
any of UW's licensees or sublicensees.

Credit: If utilization of the Software results in outcomes which will be
published, please specify the version of Software you used and cite the
source of Software.

Disclaimers: Any risk associated with using the Software is with you and
your Institution. Software is experimental in nature and is made
available as a research courtesy "AS IS," without obligation by UW to
provide accompanying services or support.

UW AND THE AUTHORS EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL WARRANTIES REGARDING
SOFTWARE, WHETHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES PERTAINING TO MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.
